apispecs/cs/working/private/actions/UserNameRecovery.md, before:

# UserNameRecovery

## Description ##

This action causes an email to be sent to the user that contains a list of all usernames associated with the provided email address.

## PrivilegeLevel ##

Anonymous

## Examples ##

	POST http://host:port/v2.0/HP-IDM/v1.0/action/UserNameRecovery HTTP/1.1
	Accept: application/json
	Content-Type: application/xml
	User-Agent: Exploder 12.3
	Host: localhost:9999
	Connection: keep-alive
	
	<JobTicket>
		<actionParams>
			<entry><key>email</key><value>demouser@nowhere.com</value></entry>
		</actionParams>
	</JobTicket>

## Action Parameters ##

| Parameter Name	| Parameter Type 	| Is Required 	|
| :--	| :--	| :- 	|
| email 	| xs:string 	| **true** 	|

## Action Steps ##

| Step Name 	| Step Description 	| Is Retryable 	|
| -----------	| ------------------	| -------------	|
| SendUserNameRecoveryEmail	| Send the list of usernames by email. 	| true 	|

## Constraints ##

1. There must be at least one username associated with the provided email address, or an error will be generated.

## JobTicket Results ##

1. No parameters are returned since the username list is in the email.

## User Name Recovery Email ##

Email messages are stored in the database. The forgot password email is stored under the identifier **"USERNAME_RECOVERY_EMAIL_ID"**. Before being sent each email is processed by replacing text of the for **%<keyword>%** with a specific value. Replacement values available in the email are listed in the following table.

| Email Text 	| Replaced With 	|
| -- 	| -- 	|
| %UsersForEmailAddress% 	| The HTML formatted list of usernames (see below) 	|
| %firstName% 	| The users first name (see below)	|

If there is more than one username returned the value of *firstName* will be provided as "Cloud User" since there may be multiple options for their name.

The value of **UsersForEmailAddress** is pre-formatted HTML, since there will be a list of at least one user. To make use of this field in the template use:

	<ul>
	%UsersForEmailAddress%
	</ul>

This will expand to:

	<ul>
	<li>username1</li><li>username2</li>...
	</ul>

After submission of a Verification email, a **CtrlServicesContactActivity** Salesforce object is created with **ActvityType**="UsernameRecoveryEmail"

Commit message:

Added new enterprise user parameters, improved email integration documentation.

apispecs/cs/working/private/actions/UserNameRecovery.md, after:

# UserNameRecovery

## Description ##

This action causes an email to be sent to the user that contains a list of all usernames associated with the provided email address.

## PrivilegeLevel ##

Anonymous

## Examples ##

	POST http://host:port/v2.0/HP-IDM/v1.0/action/UserNameRecovery HTTP/1.1
	Accept: application/json
	Content-Type: application/xml
	User-Agent: Exploder 12.3
	Host: localhost:9999
	Connection: keep-alive
	
	<JobTicket>
		<actionParams>
			<entry><key>email</key><value>demouser@nowhere.com</value></entry>
		</actionParams>
	</JobTicket>

## Action Parameters ##

| Parameter Name	| Parameter Type 	| Is Required 	|
| :--	| :--	| :- 	|
| email 	| xs:string 	| **true** 	|

## Action Steps ##

| Step Name 	| Step Description 	| Is Retryable 	|
| -----------	| ------------------	| -------------	|
| SendUserNameRecoveryEmail	| Send the list of usernames by email. 	| true 	|

## Constraints ##

1. There must be at least one username associated with the provided email address, or an error will be generated.

## JobTicket Results ##

1. No parameters are returned since the username list is in the email.

## Email Integration ##

After submission of an email a **CtrlSvcsContactActivity** Salesforce object is created with **ActvityType** set to a value from the table below.

| Templates Used	| CtrlSvcsContactActivity Type 	|
| -- 	| -- 	|
| USERNAME_RECOVERY_EMAIL_ID 	| UserNameRecoveryEmail	|

Email messages are stored in the database. The email template is stored under the template name. Before being sent each email is processed by replacing text of the for %keyword% with a specific value. Replacement values available in the welcome email are listed in the following table.

| Email Text 	| Replaced With 	|
| -- 	| -- 	|
| %accountId% 	| user.accountId 	|
| %username% 	| user.username 	|
| %firstName% 	| user.firstName 	|
| %lastName% 	| user.lastName 	|
| %addressLine1% 	| user.addressLine1 	|
| %addressLine2% 	| user.addressLine2 	|
| %city% 	| user.city 	|
| %state% 	| user.state 	|
| %zip% 	| user.zip 	|
| %country% 	| user.country 	|
| %phone% 	| user.phone 	|
| %company% 	| user.company 	|
| %website% 	| user.website 	|
| %emailAddress% 	| user.emailAddress 	|
| %ResetToken% 	| nonce value if required 	|
| %UsersForEmailAddress% 	| The HTML formatted list of usernames (see below) 	|
| %firstName% 	| The users first name (see below)	|

If there is more than one username returned the value of *firstName* will be provided as "Cloud User" since there may be multiple options for their name.

The value of **UsersForEmailAddress** is pre-formatted HTML, since there will be a list of at least one user. To make use of this field in the template use:

	<ul>
	%UsersForEmailAddress%
	</ul>

This will expand to:

	<ul>
	<li>username1</li><li>username2</li>...
	</ul>
